Spec `/relations` and aggregations (#1062)
matrix-org/matrix-spec: content/client-server-api/modules/rich_replies.md

---
type: module
---

### Rich replies

{{% changed-in v="1.3" %}}

> More common on [`m.room.message`](#mroommessage) events, rich replies are a
> special kind of [relationship](#forming-relationships-between-events) which
> effectively quotes the referenced event for the client to render/process how
> it wishes.

Reviewer: clarity:

```suggestion
Rich replies are a
special kind of [relationship](#forming-relationships-between-events) which
effectively quotes the referenced event for the client to render/process how
it wishes. They are normally used with [`m.room.message`](#mroommessage) events.
```

{{% boxes/note %}}
Until v1.3 of the spec, rich replies were limited to `m.room.message` events
which could represent an HTML-formatted body. As of v1.3 this is now expanded
to *all* event types by dropping the requirement that an HTML-formatted body
be included.

Additionally, a rich reply can reference any other event type as of v1.3.
Previously, a rich reply could only reference another `m.room.message` event.
{{% /boxes/note %}}

When possible, events SHOULD include a [fallback representation](#fallbacks-for-rich-replies)
to allow clients which do not render rich replies to still see something which
appears to be a quoted reply.

> Though rich replies are forming a relationship to another event, they do not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though rich replies are form a relationship to another event, they do not
```

Reviewer: sorry.

```suggestion
Though rich replies form a relationship to another event, they do not
```

Author: I'm still reading it wrong, but maybe that's a me problem.

use `rel_type` to create this relationship. Instead, a subkey named `m.in_reply_to`

> is used to describe the reply's relationship, leaving the other keys of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is used to describe the reply's relationship, leaving the other properties of
```

`m.relates_to` to describe the primary relationship of the event. This means
that if an event is simply in reply to another event, without further relationship,

> the `rel_type` and `event_id` keys of `m.relates_to` become *optional*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `rel_type` and `event_id` properties of `m.relates_to` become *optional*.
```

An example reply would be:

```json5
{
  "content": {
    "m.relates_to": {
      "m.in_reply_to": {
        "event_id": "$another_event"
      }
    },
    "body": "That sounds like a great idea!"
  },
  // other fields as required by events
}
```

Note that the `event_id` of the `m.in_reply_to` object has the same requirements
as if it were to be under `m.relates_to` directly instead.

#### Fallbacks for rich replies

Some clients may not have support for rich replies and therefore need a
fallback to use instead. Clients that do not support rich replies should
render the event as if rich replies were not special.

Clients that do support rich replies SHOULD provide the fallback format on
replies, and MUST strip the fallback before rendering the reply. The
specific fallback text is different for each `msgtype`, however the
general format for the `body` is:

> ```

Reviewer: this is missing its `text` content-type-marker-thingio

> <@alice:example.org> This is the original body

This is where the reply goes

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think this is rendering how you hoped. Likewise in a number of places below.

Author: 😭 😭 😭 😭 😭 

will fix, somehow.
